The Joe Rogan experience.
They show them the new missile they've developed and, uh,
but it has kind of a round, round head and he says, uh,
you need to make it more pointy to his engineers.
And, uh, actually that's what I also said to the same thing. Um, you know,
stop it. We need to make a more pointy.
Did you say that because of the movie? Yeah, really? Yeah. Hold on.
I just have the main camera on. Okay. Okay.
That's you literally told them to make the star ship more pointy because of the
movie dictator.
Yup. Um, and they know it too.
It's not like they don't like the heaven unaware of it.
I thought it would be funny if we made the rocket at point. So we did.
Did it have any effects on the aerodynamics? No.
Nothing. Now we can make it way blunter and be fine.
But it was, is it better to be pointing here or like if it wasn't for the.
Really worse, like.
But more fun for you? It looks cooler. Uh, well, okay. It does look cool. Yeah.
Yeah.
How.
Long do you think it will be before you good Jimmy? What's up?
Uh, it's my, my head maybe. Yeah, exactly. You good?
Yeah. How.
Long my head is sticking out. Is that where it's oh,
is that supposed to be okay? You're good. All right.
How long do you think it's going to be before you have like regular flights with
that?
Where you can take off and land and like an airplane where it would be very.
Consistent with our extra pointy rocket.
You will, your extra pointing a rocket.
Do you mean earth, earth transport or, or,
or anywhere?
Anytime where you could just do it with people and have them have it land all
the time?
Um, I think it would probably years away. Two years.
Away. Yeah. That's, that's, that's really nice. Two years is pretty cool.
GRS or people will we'll, we'll have a lot of flights between now and then.
That's crazy. That's 20, 23 is not that far away.
That'll be there before you know it. Yeah.
Wow. 20, 23 time flies.
How many times have you had explosions with?
Um, I don't know, like a, quite a few six,
maybe five or six.
What are those? Like,
what is it like when you watch it explode when it's supposed to land and it
just.
Now this, this is a test program we expect you to S to, to explore.
Um, it it's weird if it doesn't explode, frankly. Really? Yeah. Um,
cause we're, you know, we're trying to develop advanced rockets, uh, at a high,
at a high speed and, uh, if you want to get paid at all, but, uh, you,
you have to run things close to the edge. And, um,
the whole rocket is warming the engines, the structure, avionics, the software,
the ground systems, all evolving simultaneously. So,
and the whole production system,
which is actually hotter than the rocket design by far. So the rock,
the rocket and engine and avionics production system is, and the,
and the launch system, uh, is a thousand percent hotter than the initial design.
I at least.
Really? Yeah. So.
When a card is like 10000%, it's easy to do a car prototype.
It's hard to do production.
Um, so when you're looking at your scaling towards the future,
and you're looking at mistakes or corrections improvements
and all of these different things,
that's how you come up with this figure of approximately two years.
If current trends continue, if we excited, w w you know, if you,
if you plot the points on the curve of progress,
and then we should be doing regular, uh,
orbital flights with a high probability of a safe landing in
two years. So we're getting to over it this year,
our goal is to get to over this year. So,
and I'd actually be able to totally are saying like,
Starship is the largest flying object ever made.
Uh, this thing will be about, oh, over 5,000 tons, uh,
weight on liftoff is going to go straight up five with 5,000 tons. Well, um,
this is much heavier than any aircraft by far.
There's no aircraft even comes close to this, uh, weight. Um,
and it's going straight up, but aircraft can't go straight up. So it's like the,
it has got more than twice.
It will have more than twice the thrust of us that in five, really? Yeah. Yeah.
It's like a big rocket.
Why does it need that much thrust? Oh, we try. Cause you want to go to Mars.
There's this.
W w we're trying to, uh, make life multi-planetary,
you know, uh, extended life beyond earth. And in order to do that,
you have to have high tonnage to Mars.
And that means you need a big rocket and you got to fly a lot.
So the reason why it has twice,
the thrust of the Saturn five is to plan for these interstellar trips,
uh, inter planetary trips. So when you, when you're doing this in your, you,
you're,
you're developing these systems thinking about regular trips to other
planets, but you're, you're not,
you're not just trying to get into orbit right now.
You're trying to get into orbit with something that eventually gets scale up.
Yeah. We know how to get to orbit. We've done that a lot. So the,
the really hard thing is we need to have a fully
and rapidly reusable rocket where the,
where all elements of the rocket are re-used and they are reused quickly like an
aircraft. Um, and this has never been done.
This is the holy grail of rocketry is,
is a to have a fully reusable rocket. Then you need to go one step further.
It needs to be fully and rapidly reusable. You know, it's like, like a plane.
Yeah. Like plane lands, you, uh, you know, refuel it and take off a game.
How do you have.
Time? This,
I I've never understand you in regards to the way you run
multiple businesses simultaneously.
I would think that something like this would require so much concentration,
it would require this. I would think this would be your whole being,
trying to figure out how to work this.
Um, yeah. Well, I do work a lot.
It's crazy. Yeah.
And I applied just for a reason. I was late as I looked like coming from, from,
uh, you know, some critical meetings just doing,
normally I'd be meeting until I work until like one or two in the morning.
Every night.
Not, I mean, Saturday and Sunday, usually not,
but sometimes how much do you sleep? About six hours. Oh, that's pretty good.
Yeah. Not that crazy.
For you. That's I mean, for someone does as much as you that's actually,
that's impressive that you can squeeze that in.
Yeah. I try. I've tried sleeping less, but then total, uh,
productivity decreases.
Yeah. So you feel like six is the number where it's.
Six, six, uh, six, four seconds. I can, um,
I, I don't find myself needing, wanting more sleep than six.
So when, like,
with the Saturn five and the space shuttles and all these other rockets,
they would, they would have these parts that would do it,
get the ship up into space,
but they would descend down to earth and crash into the ocean and they would
never use them again. That's right. How do you avoid that? Like,
what is the difference between the way that these things are structured?
Like the, it, the,
the whole thing goes together and then it lands together?
Um, well, we're on the wrong planet for a single stage to orbit, right? Um,
I think one thing to appreciate is like space. Getting just space is easy.
Getting to orbit is hard.
So you only need maybe one or 2% of the energy to get to a
space where the atmosphere is thin compared to what you need to get to orbit.
And if you get to orbit,
now you've got to burn off all that energy and you're coming in like a media.
So you need a powerful heat shield.
So it's like super difficult to get to orbit and at all.
Um, and then if you get to orbit at all, then making those,
the stages reusable means they've got to come back in tact. Uh, and then the,
the opera stage is especially difficult because it's got so much energy,
all the energy you put into it, you have to take out. Um, so it's, uh,
you know, you're literally coming in like a flaming meteor, uh, and,
and most things would just Melton vapor melt or vaporize. So,
um, like if you as human trying to come in from all, but you just be pink mist.
Yeah.
That's a funny way to put it. Yeah.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free. Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.